docs/source/developers/java/development.rst, before:

.. Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
.. or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
.. distributed with this work for additional information
.. regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
.. to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
.. "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
.. with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

..   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

.. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
.. software distributed under the License is distributed on an
.. "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
.. KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
.. specific language governing permissions and limitations
.. under the License.

.. highlight:: console

======================
Development Guidelines
======================

.. contents::

Unit Testing
============
Unit tests are run by Maven during the build.

To speed up the build, you can skip them by passing -DskipTests.
.. code-block::

    $ cd arrow/java
    $ mvn \
        -Darrow.cpp.build.dir=../java-dist/lib -Parrow-jni \
        -Darrow.c.jni.dist.dir=../java-dist/lib -Parrow-c-data \
        clean install

Performance Testing
===================

The ``arrow-performance`` module contains benchmarks.

Let's configure our environment to run performance tests:

- Install `benchmark`_
- Install `archery`_

In case you need to see your performance tests on the UI, then, configure (optional):

- Install `conbench`_

Lets execute benchmark tests:

.. code-block::

    $ cd benchmarks
    $ conbench java-micro --help
    $ conbench java-micro
        --iterations=1
        --commit=e90472e35b40f58b17d408438bb8de1641bfe6ef
        --java-home=<absolute path to your java home>
        --src=<absolute path to your arrow project>
        --benchmark-filter=org.apache.arrow.adapter.AvroAdapterBenchmarks.testAvroToArrow
    Benchmark                              Mode  Cnt       Score   Error  Units
    AvroAdapterBenchmarks.testAvroToArrow  avgt       725545.783          ns/op
    Time to POST http://localhost:5000/api/login/ 0.14911699295043945
    Time to POST http://localhost:5000/api/benchmarks/ 0.06116318702697754

Then go to: http://127.0.0.1:5000/ to see reports:

UI Home:

.. image:: img/conbench_ui.png

UI Runs:

.. image:: img/conbench_runs.png

UI Benchmark:

.. image:: img/conbench_benchmark.png

Code Style
==========

Code style is enforced with Checkstyle. The configuration is located at `checkstyle`_.
You can also just check the style without building the project.
This checks the code style of all source code under the current directory or from within an individual module.

.. code-block::

    $ mvn checkstyle:check

.. _benchmark: https://github.com/ursacomputing/benchmarks
.. _archery: https://github.com/apache/arrow/blob/master/dev/conbench_envs/README.md#L188
.. _conbench: https://github.com/conbench/conbench
.. _checkstyle: https://github.com/apache/arrow/blob/master/java/dev/checkstyle/checkstyle.xml

Commit message:

ARROW-17882: [Java][Doc] Adding building steps for Windows user to produce JNI DLL (#14379)
Authored-by: david dali susanibar arce <davi.sarces@gmail.com>
Signed-off-by: David Li <li.davidm96@gmail.com>

docs/source/developers/java/development.rst, after:

.. Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
.. or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
.. distributed with this work for additional information
.. regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
.. to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
.. "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
.. with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

..   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

.. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
.. software distributed under the License is distributed on an
.. "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
.. KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
.. specific language governing permissions and limitations
.. under the License.

.. highlight:: console

======================
Development Guidelines
======================

.. contents::

Unit Testing
============
Unit tests are run by Maven during the build.

To speed up the build, you can skip them by passing -DskipTests.
.. code-block::

    $ cd arrow/java
    $ mvn \
        -Darrow.cpp.build.dir=../java-dist/lib -Parrow-jni \
        -Darrow.c.jni.dist.dir=../java-dist/lib -Parrow-c-data \
        clean install

Performance Testing
===================

The ``arrow-performance`` module contains benchmarks.

Let's configure our environment to run performance tests:

- Install `benchmark`_
- Install `archery`_

In case you need to see your performance tests on the UI, then, configure (optional):

- Install `conbench`_

Lets execute benchmark tests:

.. code-block::

    $ cd benchmarks
    $ conbench java-micro --help
    $ conbench java-micro
        --iterations=1
        --commit=e90472e35b40f58b17d408438bb8de1641bfe6ef
        --java-home=<absolute path to your java home>
        --src=<absolute path to your arrow project>
        --benchmark-filter=org.apache.arrow.adapter.AvroAdapterBenchmarks.testAvroToArrow
    Benchmark                              Mode  Cnt       Score   Error  Units
    AvroAdapterBenchmarks.testAvroToArrow  avgt       725545.783          ns/op
    Time to POST http://localhost:5000/api/login/ 0.14911699295043945
    Time to POST http://localhost:5000/api/benchmarks/ 0.06116318702697754

Then go to: http://127.0.0.1:5000/ to see reports:

UI Home:

.. image:: img/conbench_ui.png

UI Runs:

.. image:: img/conbench_runs.png

UI Benchmark:

.. image:: img/conbench_benchmark.png

Integration Testing
===================

Integration tests can be run via Archery:

.. code-block::

    $ archery integration --with-java true --with-cpp false --with-js false --with-csharp false --with-go false --with-rust false

Code Style
==========

Code style is enforced with Checkstyle. The configuration is located at `checkstyle`_.
You can also just check the style without building the project.
This checks the code style of all source code under the current directory or from within an individual module.

.. code-block::

    $ mvn checkstyle:check

.. _benchmark: https://github.com/ursacomputing/benchmarks
.. _archery: https://github.com/apache/arrow/blob/master/dev/conbench_envs/README.md#L188
.. _conbench: https://github.com/conbench/conbench
.. _checkstyle: https://github.com/apache/arrow/blob/master/java/dev/checkstyle/checkstyle.xml
