docs/source/python/api/plasma.rst, before:

.. Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
.. or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
.. distributed with this work for additional information
.. regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
.. to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
.. "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
.. with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

..   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

.. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
.. software distributed under the License is distributed on an
.. "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
.. KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
.. specific language governing permissions and limitations
.. under the License.

.. currentmodule:: pyarrow.plasma

.. _api.plasma:

Plasma In-Memory Object Store
=============================

Classes
-------

.. autosummary::
   :toctree: ../generated/

   ObjectID
   PlasmaClient
   PlasmaBuffer

Commit message:

ARROW-17863: [Python] Deprecate Plasma Python bindings (#14343)
Lead-authored-by: Alenka Frim <frim.alenka@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Alenka Frim <AlenkaF@users.noreply.github.com>
Signed-off-by: Joris Van den Bossche <jorisvandenbossche@gmail.com>

docs/source/python/api/plasma.rst, after:

.. Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
.. or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
.. distributed with this work for additional information
.. regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
.. to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
.. "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
.. with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

..   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

.. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
.. software distributed under the License is distributed on an
.. "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
.. KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
.. specific language governing permissions and limitations
.. under the License.

.. currentmodule:: pyarrow.plasma

.. _api.plasma:

Plasma In-Memory Object Store
=============================

.. warning::

   Plasma is deprecated since Arrow 10.0.0. It will be removed in 12.0.0 or so.

Classes
-------

.. autosummary::
   :toctree: ../generated/

   ObjectID
   PlasmaClient
   PlasmaBuffer
