docs/source/cpp/getting_started.rst, before:

.. Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
.. or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
.. distributed with this work for additional information
.. regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
.. to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
.. "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
.. with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

..   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

.. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
.. software distributed under the License is distributed on an
.. "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
.. KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
.. specific language governing permissions and limitations
.. under the License.

.. default-domain:: cpp
.. highlight:: cpp

User Guide
==========

.. toctree::

   overview
   conventions
   build_system
   memory
   arrays
   datatypes
   tables
   compute
   streaming_execution
   io
   ipc
   orc
   parquet
   csv
   json
   dataset
   flight
   gdb
   threading
   env_vars

Commit message:

ARROW-17377: [C++][Docs] Adds tutorial for basic Arrow, file access, compute, and datasets (#13859)
I intend for this PR to add a few small tutorial articles to the Arrow documentation, for basic Arrow usage, file access, compute, and dataset functionality. 

Right now, this is a draft PR, with just the code for the examples. Before I set it up with comments and prose in Sphinx, I wanted to get it reviewed. Do these examples seem suitable for the tutorials they target?

Authored-by: kaesuarez <kaesuarez1423@gmail.com>
Signed-off-by: David Li <li.davidm96@gmail.com>

docs/source/cpp/getting_started.rst, after:

.. Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
.. or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
.. distributed with this work for additional information
.. regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
.. to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
.. "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
.. with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

..   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

.. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
.. software distributed under the License is distributed on an
.. "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
.. KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
.. specific language governing permissions and limitations
.. under the License.

.. default-domain:: cpp
.. highlight:: cpp

Getting Started
===============

The following articles demonstrate installation, use, and a basic understanding of Arrow.
These articles will get you setup quickly using Arrow and give you a taste of what the
library is capable of.
Specifically, it contains: an installation and linking guide; documentation of conventions used 
in the codebase and suggested for users; and tutorials, including: 

* Building Arrow arrays and tabular structures 
* Reading and writing Parquet, Arrow, and CSV files
* Executing compute kernels on arrays
* Reading and writing multi-file partitioned datasets

Start here to gain a basic understanding of Arrow, and move on to the :doc:`/cpp/user_guide` to
explore more specific topics and underlying concepts, or the :doc:`/cpp/api` to explore Arrow's 
API. 

.. toctree::

   build_system
   conventions
   tutorials/basic_arrow.rst
   tutorials/io_tutorial.rst
   tutorials/compute_tutorial.rst
   tutorials/datasets_tutorial.rst
