docs/source/developers/guide/step_by_step/finding_issues.rst, before:

.. Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
.. or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
.. distributed with this work for additional information
.. regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
.. to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
.. "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
.. with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

..   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

.. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
.. software distributed under the License is distributed on an
.. "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
.. KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
.. specific language governing permissions and limitations
.. under the License.


.. SCOPE OF THIS SECTION
.. This section should include additional information
.. about JIRA, how to find issues or how to create one.
.. Should not duplicate with Report bugs and propose features
.. section:

..   https://arrow.apache.org/docs/developers/contributing.html#tips-for-using-jira


.. _finding-issues:

****************************
Finding good first issues 🔎
****************************

You have successfully built the Arrow library; congrats!

The next step is finding something to work on. As mentioned before,
you might already have a bug to fix in mind, or a new feature that
you want to implement. Or you still need an issue to work on and
you need some help with finding one.

For both cases, JIRA is the issue tracker that we use.

First we will explain how to use JIRA if you have a fix or a feature
to work on that doesn't yet have a JIRA ticket open, in which case you
will need to create a JIRA ticket yourself.

Secondly, we will show you a way to find good first issues to work on.


Creating a JIRA account
==========================

First thing you need to do is to make an account on the ASF JIRA following
`this link <https://issues.apache.org/jira/secure/Signup!default.jspa>`_.
You will be asked to select a language and choose an avatar if you wish. If
the registration is successful you will see:

.. figure:: /developers/images/jira_new_account.jpeg
   :scale: 70 %
   :alt: creating an ASF JIRA account

   The window you get after creating an account on the ASF JIRA.


.. _create_jira:

How to create a JIRA issue
==========================

After creating an account you can click **Create an issue** and select
**Apache Arrow project** and **Type** of the issue (Bug, Feature, …).

.. figure:: /developers/images/jira_create_issue.jpeg
   :scale: 70 %
   :alt: creating JIRA issue

   The window to create a JIRA issue.

If you are already in JIRA dashboard click the red ``create`` button in
the top to do the same.

You are ready to create the issue! Add a title and a description following
the :ref:`tips for using JIRA <jira-tips>` and you are ready to go!

.. seealso::
	:ref:`Tips for using JIRA <jira-tips>`

You don’t need any special permissions on JIRA to be able to create issues.
Once you are more involved in the project and want to do more on JIRA, for
example assigning yourself an issue, you will need **“Contributor” permissions**.
To get this role, ask on the :ref:`mailing_list` or in the comment of the JIRA
issue you created.

When the ticket is created you can start a discussion about it in the
JIRA comments section.

How we use JIRA to find an issue
================================

To make it easier for you to find issues that are well-suited for new
contributors, we have added labels like “good-first-issue” or “beginner”
to some JIRA tickets.

.. seealso::
   Search for good first/second issues with labels like in the `link here
   <https://issues.apache.org/jira/issues/?filter=-4&jql=project%20%3D%20ARROW%20AND%20status%20%3D%20Open%20AND%20labels%20in%20(Beginner%2C%20beginner%2C%20beginners%2C%20beginnner%2C%20beginner-friendly%2C%20good-first-issue%2C%20good-second-issue%2C%20GoodForNewContributors%2C%20newbie%2C%20easyfix%2C%20documentation)%20order%20by%20created%20DESC>`_

The issues labeled as good first issues should take no more than two days or
a weekend to fix them. Once you dig into the code you may find that the issue
is not easy at all - this can happen as the problem could be harder than the
person who triaged the ticket expected it to be. Don't hesitate to write that
in the comments.

.. figure:: /developers/images/jira_good_first_issue.jpeg
   :scale: 45 %
   :alt: finding good first JIRA issue

   Example of the list of good first issues.

.. note::
   
   When you find a JIRA issue you would like to work on, please mention your
   interest in the comment section of that issue; that way we will know you
   are working on it.

Also, do not hesitate to ask questions in the comment section of the issue.
You can get some pointers about where to start and similar issues already solved.

**What if an issue is already asigned?**
Anything that’s not in the “In Progress” state is fair game, even if it is
“Assigned” to someone, particularly if it has not been recently updated.
When in doubt, comment on the issue asking if they mind if you try to put
together a pull request; interpret no response to mean that you’re free to
proceed.

**Ask questions**
Please do ask questions, either on the JIRA itself or on the dev mailing list,
if you have doubts about where to begin or what approach to take.
This is particularly a good idea if this is your first code contribution,
so you can get some sense of what the core developers in this part of the
project think a good solution looks like. For best results, ask specific,
direct questions, such as:

* Do you think $PROPOSED_APPROACH is the right one?
* In which file(s) should I be looking to make changes?
* Is there anything related in the codebase I can look at to learn?

If you ask these questions and do not get an answer, it is OK to ask again.

.. note::

   **Do not forget to create a new branch once you have created or chosen an
   issue you will be working on!** Follow the instructions in the
   :ref:`pr_lifecycle` section or follow the next section: :ref:`arrow-codebase`.

Commit message:

ARROW-17322: [Docs] Documenting issue lifecycle for bugs and feature requests (#13781)
These changes aim to document the issue lifecycle - how to create new issues (largely already existed) as well as how to engage with and understand issue state later on. This also serves to document proposed processes:

1. Assigned issues idle more than 90 days may be unassigned (discussed and approved on ML)
2. Unassigned issues in "In Progress" status should be set to "Open"
3. Establishing consistent usage of Status and Resolution fields.

Authored-by: Todd Farmer <todd@fivefarmers.com>
Signed-off-by: Antoine Pitrou <antoine@python.org>

docs/source/developers/guide/step_by_step/finding_issues.rst, after:

.. Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
.. or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
.. distributed with this work for additional information
.. regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
.. to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
.. "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
.. with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

..   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

.. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
.. software distributed under the License is distributed on an
.. "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
.. KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
.. specific language governing permissions and limitations
.. under the License.


.. SCOPE OF THIS SECTION
.. This section should include additional information
.. about JIRA, how to find issues or how to create one.
.. Should not duplicate with Report bugs and propose features
.. section:

..   https://arrow.apache.org/docs/developers/contributing.html#tips-for-using-jira


.. _finding-issues:

****************************
Finding good first issues 🔎
****************************

You have successfully built the Arrow library; congrats!

The next step is finding something to work on. As mentioned before,
you might already have a bug to fix in mind, or a new feature that
you want to implement. Or you still need an issue to work on and
you need some help with finding one.

For both cases, JIRA is the issue tracker that we use.

First we will explain how to use JIRA if you have a fix or a feature
to work on that doesn't yet have a JIRA ticket open, in which case you
will need to create a JIRA ticket yourself.

Secondly, we will show you a way to find good first issues to work on.


Creating a JIRA account
==========================

First thing you need to do is to make an account on the ASF JIRA following
`this link <https://issues.apache.org/jira/secure/Signup!default.jspa>`_.
You will be asked to select a language and choose an avatar if you wish. If
the registration is successful you will see:

.. figure:: /developers/images/jira_new_account.jpeg
   :scale: 70 %
   :alt: creating an ASF JIRA account

   The window you get after creating an account on the ASF JIRA.


.. _create_jira:

How to create a JIRA issue
==========================

After creating an account you can click **Create an issue** and select
**Apache Arrow project** and **Type** of the issue (Bug, Feature, …).

.. figure:: /developers/images/jira_create_issue.jpeg
   :scale: 70 %
   :alt: creating JIRA issue

   The window to create a JIRA issue.

If you are already in JIRA dashboard click the red ``create`` button in
the top to do the same.

You are ready to create the issue! Add a title and a description following
the guidance in :ref:`creating issues <creating-issues>` and you are ready to go!

.. seealso::
	:ref:`Creating issues <creating-issues>`

You don’t need any special permissions on JIRA to be able to create
or self-assign issues.
To get this role, ask on the :ref:`dev mailing list <mailing_list>`.

When the ticket is created you can start a discussion about it in the
JIRA comments section.

How we use JIRA to find an issue
================================

To make it easier for you to find issues that are well-suited for new
contributors, we have added labels like “good-first-issue” or “beginner”
to some JIRA tickets.

.. seealso::
   Search for good first/second issues with labels like in the `link here
   <https://issues.apache.org/jira/issues/?filter=-4&jql=project%20%3D%20ARROW%20AND%20status%20%3D%20Open%20AND%20labels%20in%20(Beginner%2C%20beginner%2C%20beginners%2C%20beginnner%2C%20beginner-friendly%2C%20good-first-issue%2C%20good-second-issue%2C%20GoodForNewContributors%2C%20newbie%2C%20easyfix%2C%20documentation)%20order%20by%20created%20DESC>`_

The issues labeled as good first issues should take no more than two days or
a weekend to fix them. Once you dig into the code you may find that the issue
is not easy at all - this can happen as the problem could be harder than the
person who triaged the ticket expected it to be. Don't hesitate to write that
in the comments.

.. figure:: /developers/images/jira_good_first_issue.jpeg
   :scale: 45 %
   :alt: finding good first JIRA issue

   Example of the list of good first issues.

.. note::
   
   When you find a JIRA issue you would like to work on, please mention your
   interest in the comment section of that issue; that way we will know you
   are working on it.

Also, do not hesitate to ask questions in the comment section of the issue.
You can get some pointers about where to start and similar issues already solved.

**What if an issue is already asigned?**
Anything that’s not in the “In Progress” state is fair game, even if it is
“Assigned” to someone, particularly if it has not been recently updated.
When in doubt, comment on the issue asking if they mind if you try to put
together a pull request; interpret no response to mean that you’re free to
proceed.

**Ask questions**
Please do ask questions, either on the JIRA itself or on the dev mailing list,
if you have doubts about where to begin or what approach to take.
This is particularly a good idea if this is your first code contribution,
so you can get some sense of what the core developers in this part of the
project think a good solution looks like. For best results, ask specific,
direct questions, such as:

* Do you think $PROPOSED_APPROACH is the right one?
* In which file(s) should I be looking to make changes?
* Is there anything related in the codebase I can look at to learn?

If you ask these questions and do not get an answer, it is OK to ask again.

.. note::

   **Do not forget to create a new branch once you have created or chosen an
   issue you will be working on!** Follow the instructions in the
   :ref:`pr_lifecycle` section or follow the next section: :ref:`arrow-codebase`.
