r/tests/testthat/_snaps/dataset-write.md, before:

# write_dataset checks for format-specific arguments

    Code
      write_dataset(df, dst_dir, format = "feather", compression = "snappy")
    Error <rlang_error>
      `compression` is not a valid argument for your chosen `format`.
      i You could try using `codec` instead of `compression`.
      i Supported arguments: `use_legacy_format`, `metadata_version`, `codec`, and `null_fallback`.

---

    Code
      write_dataset(df, dst_dir, format = "feather", nonsensical_arg = "blah-blah")
    Error <rlang_error>
      `nonsensical_arg` is not a valid argument for your chosen `format`.
      i Supported arguments: `use_legacy_format`, `metadata_version`, `codec`, and `null_fallback`.

---

    Code
      write_dataset(df, dst_dir, format = "arrow", nonsensical_arg = "blah-blah")
    Error <rlang_error>
      `nonsensical_arg` is not a valid argument for your chosen `format`.
      i Supported arguments: `use_legacy_format`, `metadata_version`, `codec`, and `null_fallback`.

---

    Code
      write_dataset(df, dst_dir, format = "ipc", nonsensical_arg = "blah-blah")
    Error <rlang_error>
      `nonsensical_arg` is not a valid argument for your chosen `format`.
      i Supported arguments: `use_legacy_format`, `metadata_version`, `codec`, and `null_fallback`.

---

    Code
      write_dataset(df, dst_dir, format = "csv", nonsensical_arg = "blah-blah")
    Error <rlang_error>
      `nonsensical_arg` is not a valid argument for your chosen `format`.
      i Supported arguments: `include_header` and `batch_size`.

---

    Code
      write_dataset(df, dst_dir, format = "parquet", nonsensical_arg = "blah-blah")
    Error <rlang_error>
      `nonsensical_arg` is not a valid argument for your chosen `format`.
      i Supported arguments: `chunk_size`, `version`, `compression`, `compression_level`, `use_dictionary`, `write_statistics`, `data_page_size`, `use_deprecated_int96_timestamps`, `coerce_timestamps`, and `allow_truncated_timestamps`.

Commit message:

GH-14745: [R] {rlang} dependency must be at least version 1.0.0 because of check_dots_empty (#14744)
The function rlang::check_dots_empty() is used in this package. That function only became available in rlang version 1.0.0, so that version should be specified as the minimum

Lead-authored-by: Dean Attali <dean@attalitech.com>
Co-authored-by: Nic Crane <thisisnic@gmail.com>
Signed-off-by: Joris Van den Bossche <jorisvandenbossche@gmail.com>

r/tests/testthat/_snaps/dataset-write.md, after:

# write_dataset checks for format-specific arguments

    Code
      write_dataset(df, dst_dir, format = "feather", compression = "snappy")
    Condition
      Error in `check_additional_args()`:
      ! `compression` is not a valid argument for your chosen `format`.
      i You could try using `codec` instead of `compression`.
      i Supported arguments: `use_legacy_format`, `metadata_version`, `codec`, and `null_fallback`.

---

    Code
      write_dataset(df, dst_dir, format = "feather", nonsensical_arg = "blah-blah")
    Condition
      Error in `check_additional_args()`:
      ! `nonsensical_arg` is not a valid argument for your chosen `format`.
      i Supported arguments: `use_legacy_format`, `metadata_version`, `codec`, and `null_fallback`.

---

    Code
      write_dataset(df, dst_dir, format = "arrow", nonsensical_arg = "blah-blah")
    Condition
      Error in `check_additional_args()`:
      ! `nonsensical_arg` is not a valid argument for your chosen `format`.
      i Supported arguments: `use_legacy_format`, `metadata_version`, `codec`, and `null_fallback`.

---

    Code
      write_dataset(df, dst_dir, format = "ipc", nonsensical_arg = "blah-blah")
    Condition
      Error in `check_additional_args()`:
      ! `nonsensical_arg` is not a valid argument for your chosen `format`.
      i Supported arguments: `use_legacy_format`, `metadata_version`, `codec`, and `null_fallback`.

---

    Code
      write_dataset(df, dst_dir, format = "csv", nonsensical_arg = "blah-blah")
    Condition
      Error in `check_additional_args()`:
      ! `nonsensical_arg` is not a valid argument for your chosen `format`.
      i Supported arguments: `include_header` and `batch_size`.

---

    Code
      write_dataset(df, dst_dir, format = "parquet", nonsensical_arg = "blah-blah")
    Condition
      Error in `check_additional_args()`:
      ! `nonsensical_arg` is not a valid argument for your chosen `format`.
      i Supported arguments: `chunk_size`, `version`, `compression`, `compression_level`, `use_dictionary`, `write_statistics`, `data_page_size`, `use_deprecated_int96_timestamps`, `coerce_timestamps`, and `allow_truncated_timestamps`.
